.TH xtfs_cleanup 1 "April 2009" "The XtreemFS Distributed File System" "XtreemFS server"
.SH NAME
xtfs_cleanup \- checks for each file on the OSD, if it has an entry at the Metadata Server (MRC). 
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBxtfs_cleanup [ \fIoptions\fB ] \fIuuid:<osd_uuid>
.BR

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I xtfs_cleanup
performs a check of each file on the given Object Storage Device (OSD) whether it is registered at a MRC or not. 
Returns a list of those files which properly can be deleted.

.SH EXAMPLE USAGE
.B "xtfs_cleanup [options] uuid:<osd_uuid>"
.PP
Cleans up the OSD with the given uuid.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.TP
\fB-h\fP                   show usage info
.TP
\fB-r\fP                   restore mode - all files will be restored to directory '/lost+found/' at the volume they are located
.TP
\fB-e\fP                   !erase mode - all files will be removed without further request!
.TP
\fB-deleteVolumes\fP       !volume deletion - deletes volumes that might be dead!
.TP
\fB-i\fP                   interactive mode - user is asked for decisions
.TP
\fB-stop\fP                suspend the currently running cleanup
.TP
\fB-p\fP                   your administrator password, if password-protection is enabled
.TP
\fB-dir\fP                 the path to the DIR configuration file.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xtfs_mount (1),
.BR xtfs_umount (1),
.BR xtfs_sp (1),
.BR xtfs_mkvol (1),
.BR xtfs_rmvol (1),
.BR xtfs_lsvol (1),
.BR xtfs_stat (1),
.BR xtfs_mrcdbtool (1),
.BR xtfs_scrub (1)
.BR

.SH AVAILABILITY
The xtfs_cleanup command is part of the XtreemFS-server package and is available from http://www.xtreemfs.org.
