.TH xtfs_mount 1 "July 2008" "The XtreemFS Distributed File System" "XtreemFS client"
.SH NAME
xtfs_mount \- mount an XtreemFS volume
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "xtfs_mount --help"
.br
\fBxtfs_mount -o \fBvolume_url=\fIURL \fImountpoint
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I xtfs_mount
mounts an XtreemFS volume in the given directory. xtfs_mount is implemented as a FUSE user-level file system driver. Other than in-kernel drives, it operates as a detached process per mount point. 

.SH EXAMPLE USAGE
.B "xtfs_mount -o volume_url=http://remote.mrc.machine/myVolume /xtreemfs"
.PP
Mounts the volume myVolume from the metadata server (MRC) remote.mrc.machine at /xtreemfs in the local file system.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-V
Output version.
.TP
.B \-h
Print help.
.TP
.B \-o
flag followed by a comma separated string of options.
.RS
.TP
.B volume_url
The full URL to the volume to be mounted including the address of its hosting metadata server. Example: volume_url=http://localhost:32636/volumename
.TP
.B dirservice
The URL to the directory service to be contacted in order to resolve UUIDs. Example: dirservice=http://localhost:32638
.TP
.B ssl_cert
Path to a PKCS#12 credentials file (private key + certificate) to use for SSL authentication. Must be present when volume_url starts with https://.
.TP
.B allow_other
Allow other users (than the one who mounted the volume) to access the mounted volume. You might need to enable this option in your /etc/fuse.conf with 'user_allow_other'.
.TP
.B allow_root
Allows root to access the mounted volume. You might need to enable this option in your /etc/fuse.conf with 'user_allow_other'.
.TP
.B direct_io
Disables all caching in the client, i.e. all reads are served directly from the server. This will reduce the read performance but ensures consistency when files are used by multiple machines. This option will
.B disable mmap
which means that no executables can be run on a volume mounted with direct_io.
.TP
.B default_permissions
FUSE mount option that enable permission checking by kernel. This is necessary for Linux kernels 2.6.18 or earlier (see KNOWN ISSUES).
.RE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fusermount (1),
.BR xtfs_umount (1),
.BR xtfs_showmount (1),
.BR xtfs_mkvol (1),
.BR xtfs_rmvol (1),
.BR xtfs_lsvol (1),
.BR xtfs_stat (1),
.BR xtfs_sp (1),
.BR xtfs_scrub (1),
.BR xtfs_mrcdbtool (1)
.BR

.SH "KNOWN ISSUES"
FUSE does not support mmap in connection with direct I/O. In order to get applications running on XtreemFS that rely on mmap, volumes have to be mounted without using the FUSE option
.B "-o direct_io"
. However, this might lead to inconsistencies if different clients access a file concurrently, as requests might be serviced from the local page cache.

When run on older Linux kernels (2.6.18 or earlier), the XtreemFS client might fail to enforce access control when changing to a directory. The problem can be solved by using the
.B "-o default_permissions"
parameter when mounting the volume.

.SH AVAILABILITY
The xtfs_mount command is part of the XtreemFS-client package and is available from http://www.XtreemFS.org