.TH xtfs_mkvol 1 "July 2008" "The XtreemFS Distributed File System" "XtreemFS client"
.SH NAME
xtfs_mkvol \- create a new XtreemFS volume on an MRC
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "xtfs_mkvol --help"
.br
\fBxtfs_mkvol [ \fIoptions\fB ] \fImrc_URL\fR/\fIvolume_name
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I xtfs_mkvol
creates a new volume named
.I volume_name
on the Metdata Server (MRC) with the address
.I mrc_URL
.

.SH EXAMPLE USAGE
.B "xtfs_mkvol -p RAID0,256,4 -a 2 http://remote.mrc.machine/myVolume"
.PP
creates a new volume named myVolume on the MRC at remote.mrc.machine with a default stripe size of 256kB and a width of 4 storage servers (OSDs). POSIX permissions are used.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.TP
.B \-h
Print help.
.TP
\fB\-p/\-\-striping-policy=\fIpolicy
Defines the default striping policy to use for the volume. The format is \fIname\fR,\fIstripe_size\fR,\fIwidth.
.RS
.TP
.I name
the name of the striping policy to use
.RS
.B RAID0
.RE
.TP
.I stripe_size
The size in kB of each stripe of the file.
.TP
.I width
The number of OSDs to stripe over.
.PP
The default policy if nothing is specified is RAID0,4,1
.RE

\fB\-s/\-\-osd-selection=\fIid\fR
.RS
.br
Defines the default OSD selection method to use for the volume.
.TP
.I 1
random OSD selection
.TP
.I 2
IP-address proximity-based OSD selection.
.PP
The default selection method is 1.
.RE

\fB\-s/\-\-access-policy=\fIid\fR
.RS
.br
Defines the access policy to use for authorizing access to the volume.
.TP
.I 1
no access policy - everyone is authorized
.TP
.I 2
POSIX ACLs - regular POSIX permissions / ACL based authorization
.TP
.I 3
Volume ACLs - similar to POSIX ACLs but there is only a single set of ACLs for the whole volume. Thsi means there are no individual permissions per file/directory.
.PP
The default access policy is 1.
.RE

\fB\-c/\-\-cert=\fIfile\fR
Used to specify the PKCS#12 file with the credentials (cert + private key) to authenticate at the MRC. Must be used if SSL is used.



.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xtfs_mount (1),
.BR xtfs_umount (1),
.BR xtfs_showmount (1),
.BR xtfs_rmvol (1),
.BR xtfs_lsvol (1),
.BR xtfs_stat (1),
.BR xtfs_sp (1),
.BR xtfs_scrub (1),
.BR xtfs_mrcdbtool (1)
.BR


.SH AVAILABILITY
The xtfs_mkvol command is part of the XtreemFS-client package and is available from http://www.XtreemFS.org