.TH lsfs.xtreemfs 1 "July 2011" "The XtreemFS Distributed File System" "XtreemFS client"
.SH NAME
lsfs.xtreemfs - list all XtreemFS volumes on an MRC
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBlsfs.xtreemfs [\fIoptions\fB] [pbrpc[g|s]://]\fImrc-host\fR[:\fIport\fR]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I lsfs.xtreemfs
lists all volumes located on the XtreemFS MRC running at \fImrc-host\fR:\fIport\fR.

.SH EXAMPLE USAGE
.TP
List all volumes of the MRC server "remote.mrc.machine":
.TP
.B "lsfs.xtreemfs remote.mrc.machine

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
Admin Password:
.TP
.BI "--admin_password " password
MRC's admin_password (not required if not set at the MRC).

.TP
General Options:
.TP
.BI "-d, --log-level " EMERG|ALERT|CRIT|ERR|WARNING|NOTICE|INFO|DEBUG
The log level of the XtreemFS client.
.TP
.B "-h, --help"
Print help and exit.
.TP
.BI "-l, --log-file-path " log_file_path
Path to log file.
.TP
.BI "-V, --version"
Shows the version number.

.TP
SSL Options:
.TP
.BI "--pem-certificate-file-path " certfile
Path to PEM certificate file (for SSL installations only).
.TP
.BI "--pem-private-key-file-path " file
Path to PEM private key file (for SSL installations only).
.TP
.BI "--pem-private-key-passphrase " pass
Passphrase for PEM private key file (for SSL installations only).
.TP
.BI "--pkcs12-file-path " file
Path to PKCS#12 file (for SSL installations only).
.TP
.BI "--pkcs12-passphrase " pass
Passphrase for PKCS#12 file (for SSL installations only).
.TP
.BI "--verify-certificates "
Enables X.509 certificate verification.
.BI "--ignore-verify-errors " errors
List of error codes to ignore during certificate verification and proceed and accept, see verify(1) for the list of error codes. Only evaluated in conjunction with --verify-certificates.  E.g. '--ignore-verify-errors 20 27 21' to accept certificates with unknown issuer certificates, untrusted certificates and one-element certificate chains (typical setup for local testing).
.TP
.BI "--min-ssl-method " ssl-method
SSL method that this client will accept:
  - ssltls accepts SSLv3 and TLSv1.x
  - tlsv1 accepts TLSv1 only
  - tlsv11 accepts TLSv1.1 only
  - tlsv12 accepts TLSv1.2 only

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mkfs.xtreemfs (1),
.BR mount.xtreemfs (1),
.BR rmfs.xtreemfs (1),
.BR umount.xtreemfs (1),
.BR xtfsutil (1)
.BR

.SH AVAILABILITY
The lsfs.xtreemfs command is part of the XtreemFS-client package and is available from \fIhttp://www.xtreemfs.org\fP.