.TH mkfs.xtreemfs 1 "July 2011" "The XtreemFS Distributed File System" "XtreemFS client"
.SH NAME
mkfs.xtreemfs - create a new XtreemFS volume
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmkfs.xtreemfs [\fIoptions\fB] [pbrpc[g|s]://]\fImrc-host\fR[:\fIport\fR]/\fIvolume
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I mkfs.xtreemfs
Creates a new volume named \fIvolume\fR at the MRC \fImrc-host\fR:\fIport\fR.

.SH EXAMPLE USAGE
.TP
Create the volume "MyVolume" on the MRC server "remote.mrc.machine":
.TP
.B "mkfs.xtreemfs remote.mrc.machine/MyVolume"
.br
.TP
Create a volume with a default striping width of 2 meaning files will be always striped across 2 OSDs.
.TP
.B "mkfs.xtreemfs \-p RAID0 \-w 2 remote.mrc.machine/MyVolume"

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
Admin Password:
.TP
.BI "--admin_password " password
MRC's admin_password (not required if not set at the MRC).

.TP
Volume Options:
.TP
.BI "-m, \--mode " mode
Mode of the volume's root directory (777 by default).
.TP
.BI "-u, \--owner-username " username
Owner of the new volume (by default it is the username of the effective user id).
.TP
.BI "-g, \--owner-groupname " groupname
Owning group of the new volume (by default its the groupname of the effective 
group id).
.TP
.BI "-a, \--access-control-policy " NULL|POSIX|VOLUME
Access Control Policy of the volume. By default
.IR POSIX .
.TP
.BI "-q, \--quota q" quota
Quota of the volume in bytes (default value 0, i.e. quota is disabled), format: <value>M|G|T

.TP
Striping Policy Options:
.TP
.BI "-p, \--striping-policy " RAID0
Default striping policy for new files. Currently only the policy
.I RAID0
is available. Please do not get confused by the name
.IR RAID0 .
If the default
.I \--striping-policy-width
of 1 is used, all objects of a file are stored on the same OSD and there is no higher failure probability compared to storing files on other file systems. 

.TP
.BI "-s, \--striping-policy-stripe-size " stripe-size
Stripe size in kB.
.TP
.BI "-w, \--striping-policy-width " stripe-width
Number of OSDs (stripes) per replica.

.TP
Volume Attributes:
.TP
.BI "--volume-attribute " name=value
Define volume specific attributes of the form 
.IR name=value ,
e.g. "chown_non_root=true".
.TP
.B "--chown-non-root"
Shortcut for \--volume-attribute chown_non_root=true. If this attribute is not set, regular users (everybody except root) are not allowed to change the ownership of their
.B own
files.

.TP
General Options:
.TP
.BI "-d, \--log-level " EMERG|ALERT|CRIT|ERR|WARNING|NOTICE|INFO|DEBUG
The log level of the XtreemFS client.
.TP
.B "-h, \--help"
Print help and exit.
.TP
.BI "-l, \--log-file-path " log_file_path
Path to log file.
.TP
.BI "-V, \--version"
Shows the version number.

.TP
SSL Options:
.TP
.BI "--pem-certificate-file-path " certfile
Path to PEM certificate file (for SSL installations only).
.TP
.BI "--pem-private-key-file-path " file
Path to PEM private key file (for SSL installations only).
.TP
.BI "--pem-private-key-passphrase " pass
Passphrase for PEM private key file (for SSL installations only).
.TP
.BI "--pkcs12-file-path " file
Path to PKCS#12 file (for SSL installations only).
.TP
.BI "--pkcs12-passphrase " pass
Passphrase for PKCS#12 file (for SSL installations only).
.TP
.BI "--verify-certificates "
Enables X.509 certificate verification.
.BI "--ignore-verify-errors " errors
List of error codes to ignore during certificate verification and proceed and accept, see verify(1) for the list of error codes. Only evaluated in conjunction with --verify-certificates.  E.g. '--ignore-verify-errors 20 27 21' to accept certificates with unknown issuer certificates, untrusted certificates and one-element certificate chains (typical setup for local testing).
.TP
.BI "--min-ssl-method " ssl-method
SSL method that this client will accept:
  - ssltls accepts SSLv3 and TLSv1.x
  - tlsv1 accepts TLSv1 only
  - tlsv11 accepts TLSv1.1 only
  - tlsv12 accepts TLSv1.2 only

.TP
Grid Support options:
.TP
.B "--grid-ssl "
Explicitily use the XtreemFS Grid-SSL mode. Same as specifying pbrpcg:// in the volume URL.
.TP
.B "--globus-gridmap"
Authorize using globus gridmap file.
.TP
.B "--unicore-gridmap"
Authorize using unicore gridmap file.
.TP
.BI "--gridmap-location " path
Location of the gridmap file. If this option is not set, the default path will be used, depending on the chosen gridmap file:
.RS
Unicore default: /etc/grid-security/d-grid_uudb
Globus default: /etc/grid-security/grid-mapfile
.RE
.TP
.BI "--gridmap-reload-interval-m " interval
Interval (in minutes) after which the gridmap file will be checked for changes and reloaded if necessary. 60 minutes by default.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lsfs.xtreemfs (1),
.BR mount.xtreemfs (1),
.BR rmfs.xtreemfs (1),
.BR umount.xtreemfs (1),
.BR xtfsutil (1)
.BR


.SH AVAILABILITY
The mkfs.xtreemfs command is part of the XtreemFS-client package and is available from \fIhttp://www.xtreemfs.org\fP.