.TH mount.xtreemfs 1 "July 2011" "The XtreemFS Distributed File System" "XtreemFS client"
.SH NAME
mount.xtreemfs \- mounts an XtreemFS volume
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmount.xtreemfs [\fIoptions\fB] [pbrpc[g|s]://]\fIdir-host\fR[:\fIport\fR]/\fIvolume mountpoint
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I mount.xtreemfs
mounts the volume \fIvolume\fR registered at the Directory Service \fIdir-host\fR:\fIport\fR to the local directory \fImountpoint\fR. \fImount.xtreemfs\fR is implemented as a FUSE user-level file system driver.

.SH EXAMPLE USAGE
.TP
Mount the volume "MyVolume" (which is registered at the DIR server "remote.dirservice.machine") to the mount point "/mnt":
.TP
.B "mount.xtreemfs remote.dirservice.machine/MyVolume /mnt"

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
Fuse Options:
.TP
.B "-f, \--foreground"
Do not fork into background.
.TP
.BI "-o, \--fuse_option " option
Passes \-o=<\fIoption\fR> to Fuse.

.TP
ACL and extended attributes Support:
.TP
.B "-o xtreemfs_acl"
Enable the correct evaluation of XtreemFS ACLs. (Note that you cannot use the system tools getfattr and setfattr; use
.BR xtfsutil (1)
instead to set and retrieve ACLs.)
.TP
.B "-o user_xattr"
Enable user defined extended attributes.

.TP
General Options:
.TP
.BI "-d, \--log-level " EMERG|ALERT|CRIT|ERR|WARNING|NOTICE|INFO|DEBUG
The log level of the XtreemFS client.
.TP
.B "-h, \--help"
Print help and exit.
.TP
.BI "-l, \--log-file-path " log_file_path
Path to log file.
.TP
.BI "-V, \--version"
Shows the version number.

.TP
Optimizations:
.TP
.BI "--metadata-cache-size " size
Number of entries which will be cached. (Set to 0 to disable the cache.)
.TP
.BI "--metadata-cache-ttl-s " ttl
Time to live after which cached entries will expire.
.TP
.BI "--enable-async-writes"
Enables asynchronous writes.
.TP
.BI "--async-writes-max-reqs " count
Maximum number of pending write requests per file. Asynchronous writes will block if this limit is reached first.
.TP
.BI "--readdir-chunk-size " size
Number of directory entries which will be fetched from the MRC per readdir request. Do not set this value too high - otherwise the MRC will spent too much time generating the response containing thousands of directory entries. In general, you should not have directories with multiple thousands of entries. If you stick to this, all directory entries are fetched with one request as long as this value is lower than the number of entries.

.TP
Error Handling options:
.TP
.BI "--max-tries " attempts
Maximum number of
.I attempts
to send a request (0 means infinite).
.TP
.BI "--max-read-tries " attempts
Maximum number of
.I attempts
to send a
.I read
request (0 means infinite).
.TP
.BI "--max-write-tries " attempts
Maximum number of
.I attempts
to send a
.I write
request (0 means infinite).
.TP
.BI "--retry-delay " delay
Wait time after a request failed until next attempt (in seconds).
.TP
.BI "--connect-timeout " connection-timeout
Timeout after which a connection attempt will be retried (in seconds).
.TP
.BI "--request-timeout " timeout
Timeout after which a request will be retried (in seconds).
.TP
.BI "--linger-timeout " linger-time
Time after which idle connections will be closed (in seconds).

.TP
SSL Options:
.TP
.BI "--pem-certificate-file-path " certfile
Path to PEM certificate file (for SSL installations only).
.TP
.BI "--pem-private-key-file-path " file
Path to PEM private key file (for SSL installations only).
.TP
.BI "--pem-private-key-passphrase " pass
Passphrase for PEM private key file (for SSL installations only).
.TP
.BI "--pkcs12-file-path " file
Path to PKCS#12 file (for SSL installations only).
.TP
.BI "--pkcs12-passphrase " pass
Passphrase for PKCS#12 file (for SSL installations only).
.TP
.BI "--verify-certificates "
Enables X.509 certificate verification.
.BI "--ignore-verify-errors " errors
List of error codes to ignore during certificate verification and proceed and accept, see verify(1) for the list of error codes. Only evaluated in conjunction with --verify-certificates.  E.g. '--ignore-verify-errors 20 27 21' to accept certificates with unknown issuer certificates, untrusted certificates and one-element certificate chains (typical setup for local testing).
.TP
.BI "--min-ssl-method " ssl-method
SSL method that this client will accept:
  - ssltls accepts SSLv3 and TLSv1.x
  - tlsv1 accepts TLSv1 only
  - tlsv11 accepts TLSv1.1 only
  - tlsv12 accepts TLSv1.2 only

.TP
Grid Support options:
.TP
.B "--grid-ssl "
Explicitily use the XtreemFS Grid-SSL mode. Same as specifying pbrpcg:// in the volume URL.
.TP
.B "--globus-gridmap"
Authorize using globus gridmap file.
.TP
.B "--unicore-gridmap"
Authorize using unicore gridmap file.
.TP
.BI "--gridmap-location " path
Location of the gridmap file. If this option is not set, the default path will be used, depending on the chosen gridmap file:
.RS
Unicore default: /etc/grid-security/d-grid_uudb
Globus default: /etc/grid-security/grid-mapfile
.RE
.TP
.BI "--gridmap-reload-interval-m " interval
Interval (in minutes) after which the gridmap file will be checked for changes and reloaded if necessary. 60 minutes by default.

.TP
Vivaldi options:
.TP
.B "--vivaldi-enable"
Enables the vivaldi coordinate calculation for the client.
.TP
.B "--vivaldi-enable-dir-updates"
Enables sending the coordinates to the DIR after each recalculation. This is only needed to add the clients to the vivaldi visualization at the cost of some additional traffic between client and DIR.
.TP
.B "--vivaldi-filename " path
The file where the vivaldi coordinates should be saved after each recalculation.
.TP
.BI "--vivaldi-recalculation-interval " seconds
The interval between coordinate recalculations in seconds. Also see vivaldi-recalculation-epsilon.
.TP
.BI "--vivaldi-recalculation-epsilon " seconds
The recalculation interval will be randomly chosen from vivaldi-recalculation-inverval +/- vivaldi-recalculation-epsilon.
.TP
.BI "--vivaldi-max-iterations-before-updating " count
Number of coordinate recalculations before updating the list of OSDs.
.TP
.BI "--vivaldi-max-request-retries " retries
Maximal number of retries when requesting coordinates from another vivaldi node.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lsfs.xtreemfs (1),
.BR mkfs.xtreemfs (1),
.BR rmfs.xtreemfs (1),
.BR umount.xtreemfs (1),
.BR xtfsutil (1)
.BR

.SH "KNOWN ISSUES"
FUSE does not support mmap in connection with direct I/O. In order to get applications running on XtreemFS that rely on mmap, volumes have to be mounted without using the FUSE option
.BR "-o direct_io" .
However, this might lead to inconsistencies if different clients access a file concurrently, as requests might be serviced from the local page cache.

If
.B "-o xtreemfs_acl"
or a gridmap file is used, the Fuse default permissions check will be disabled. In consequence, the Fuse Option "\-o default_permissions" will not be sent to Fuse. In these cases, the content of the metadata cache may be spoofed by users although they are not allowed to list the directory or retrieve the stat information of a file.

.SH AVAILABILITY
The mount.xtreemfs command is part of the XtreemFS-client package and is available from \fIhttp://www.xtreemfs.org\fP.
