.TH rmfs.xtreemfs 1 "July 2011" "The XtreemFS Distributed File System" "XtreemFS client"
.SH NAME
rmfs.xtreemfs - delete a volume including all files on an XtreemFS MRC
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBrmfs.xtreemfs [\fIoptions\fB] [pbrpc[g|s]://]\fImrc-host\fR[:\fIport\fR]/\fIvolume
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I rmfs.xtreemfs
deletes the volume named \fIvolume\fR from the XtreemFS MRC running at \fImrc-host\fR:\fIport\fR. Be careful, this command will delete the volume including the metadata of all files.

However, the disk space on the OSDs, occupied by the objects of the files of the deleted volume, will not be freed by \fIrmfs.xtreemfs\fR. Run
.BR xtfs_cleanup (1)
afterwards to free the disk space on the OSDs.

.SH EXAMPLE USAGE
.TP
Delete the volume "MyVolume" which is stored at the MRC server "remote.mrc.machine":
.TP
.B "rmfs.xtreemfs remote.mrc.machine/MyVolume"

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
rmfs.xtreemfs Options:
.TP
.BI "--admin_password " password
MRC's admin_password (not required if not set at the MRC).
.TP
.BI "-f, --force"
Never prompt. Overrides safety questions.

.TP
General Options:
.TP
.BI "-d, --log-level " EMERG|ALERT|CRIT|ERR|WARNING|NOTICE|INFO|DEBUG
The log level of the XtreemFS client.
.TP
.B "-h, --help"
Print help and exit.
.TP
.BI "-l, --log-file-path " log_file_path
Path to log file.
.TP
.BI "-V, --version"
Shows the version number.

.TP
SSL Options:
.TP
.BI "--pem-certificate-file-path " certfile
Path to PEM certificate file (for SSL installations only).
.TP
.BI "--pem-private-key-file-path " file
Path to PEM private key file (for SSL installations only).
.TP
.BI "--pem-private-key-passphrase " pass
Passphrase for PEM private key file (for SSL installations only).
.TP
.BI "--pkcs12-file-path " file
Path to PKCS#12 file (for SSL installations only).
.TP
.BI "--pkcs12-passphrase " pass
Passphrase for PKCS#12 file (for SSL installations only).
.TP
.BI "--verify-certificates "
Enables X.509 certificate verification.
.BI "--ignore-verify-errors " errors
List of error codes to ignore during certificate verification and proceed and accept, see verify(1) for the list of error codes. Only evaluated in conjunction with --verify-certificates.  E.g. '--ignore-verify-errors 20 27 21' to accept certificates with unknown issuer certificates, untrusted certificates and one-element certificate chains (typical setup for local testing).
.TP
.BI "--min-ssl-method " ssl-method
SSL method that this client will accept:
  - ssltls accepts SSLv3 and TLSv1.x
  - tlsv1 accepts TLSv1 only
  - tlsv11 accepts TLSv1.1 only
  - tlsv12 accepts TLSv1.2 only

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lsfs.xtreemfs (1),
.BR mkfs.xtreemfs (1),
.BR mount.xtreemfs (1),
.BR umount.xtreemfs (1),
.BR xtfsutil (1)
.BR

.SH AVAILABILITY
The rmfs.xtreemfs command is part of the XtreemFS-client package and is available from \fIhttp://www.xtreemfs.org\fP.
