.TH xtfs_dirreplicationtool 1 "October 2009" "The XtreemFS Distributed File System" "XtreemFS tools"
.SH NAME
xtfs_dirreplicationtool \- configure the replication of the DIR.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBxtfs_dirreplicationtool [\fIoptions\fB] \fIdtoMaster
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I xtfs_dirreplicationtool
Declares a DIR \fItoMaster\fP in the context of a master-slave-replicated setup.

.SH EXAMPLE USAGE
.B "xtfs_dirreplicationtool -dir oncrpc://localhost:32638 toMaster"
.PP
Sets the DIR running on \fIlocalhost:32638\fP in master-mode and sets other for the replication registered participants
into slave-mode. The DIR has to be started with replication enabled! And at least one more participant has to 
registered to it.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c \fIcreds_file
Path to a PKCS#12 credentials file (private key + certificate) to use for SSL authentication. Must be present when DIR URL starts with oncrpcs://.
.TP
.B \-cpass \fIcreds_passphrase
An optional passphrase to access the credentials file.
.TP
.B \-h
Print help.
.TP
.B \-dir \fIdir_url
The URL the DIR, e.g. oncrpc://localhost:32638.
.TP
.B \-p \fIpassphrase
The administrator password, if password protection is enabled
.TP
.B \-t \fItrusted_CAs
Path to a PKCS#12 file containing a set of certificates from trusted certification authorities. These certificates will be used to authenticate the DIR. Must be present when DIR URL starts with oncrpcs://.
.TP
.B \-tpass \fItrusted_passphrase
An optional passphrase to access the truststore file.
.RE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lsfs.xtreemfs (1),
.br mkfs.xtreemfs (1),
.BR mount.xtreemfs (1),
.BR rmfs.xtreemfs (1),
.BR umount.xtreemfs (1),
.BR xtfs_cleanup (1),
.BR xtfs_mrcdbtool (1),
.BR xtfs_repl (1),
.BR xtfs_scrub (1),
.BR xtfs_sp (1),
.BR xtfs_stat (1)
.BR

.SH AVAILABILITY
The xtfs_dirreplicationtool command is part of the XtreemFS-tools package and is available from http://www.xtreemfs.org
