.TH xtfs_snap 1 "July 2011" "The XtreemFS Distributed File System" "XtreemFS Admin Tools"
.SH NAME
xtfs_snap \- tool for the management of snapshots.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP
\fBxtfs_snap -c [-r] [-d \fI<path>\fP] [\fI<name>\fP]
.P
\fBxtfs_snap -x [-d \fI<path>\fP] \fI<name>\fP
.P
\fBxtfs_snap -l [-d \fI<path>\fP]
.P
\fBxtfs_snap --enable [-d \fI<root-dir>\fP]
.P
\fBxtfs_snap --disable [-d \fI<root-dir>\fP]
.P
\fBxtfs_snap --is_enabled [-d \fI<root-dir>\fP]
.P
\fBxtfs_snap -h|--help

.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I xtfs_snap
enables, disables, creates, deletes and lists snapshots on a mounted XtreemFS volume.


.SH EXAMPLE USAGE
.TP
.B "xtfs_snap --enable ./xtreemfs"
Enables snapshot support on the volume mounted at \fI./xtreemfs\fP.
.TP
.B "xtfs_snap -c -r mySnap"
Takes a new snapshot named \fImySnap\fP of the current directory and all subdirectories.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.TP
\fB-c
Creates a new snapshot.
.TP
\fB-d
Specifies the path to the directory or mount point to which the operation is applied.
.TP
\fB-h/--help
Shows usage info.
.TP
\fB-l
Lists all existing snapshots.
.TP
\fB-r 
Recursively includes subdirectories in the newly created snapshot.
.TP
\fB-x \fI<name>
Deletes the existing snapshot with the name \fIname\fP.
.TP
\fB--disable
Disables snapshot support. If snapshot support is disabled, snapshots cannot be taken anymore.
.TP
\fB--enable
Enables snapshot support. Note that this has to be done before snapshots can be taken.
.TP
\fB--is_enabled
Checks if snapshot support is enabled.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xtfs_chstatus (1),
.BR xtfs_cleanup (1),
.BR xtfs_mrcdbtool (1),
.BR xtfs_remove_osd (1),
.BR xtfs_scrub (1)
.BR

.SH AVAILABILITY
The xtfs_snap command is part of the XtreemFS-tools package and is available from \fIhttp://www.xtreemfs.org\fP.
