.TH xtfs_chstatus 1 "July 2011" "The XtreemFS Distributed File System" "XtreemFS Admin Tools"
.SH NAME
xtfs_chstatus \- changes the status flag of an OSD.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBxtfs_chstatus [ \fIoptions\fB ] \fI<osd_uuid> online|removed\fB
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I xtfs_chstatus
displays and changes the status flag of an OSD. The status can be 0 (online), 1 (locked) and 2 (permanently dead/removed). The status flag is used by the scrubber to identify dead OSDs. Files and replicas on dead OSDs are removed by the scrubber tool.

.SH EXAMPLE USAGE
.TP
.B "xtfs_chstatus -dir pbrpc://localhost:32638 2e3d-424b-b3d2 removed
Changes the status of the OSD with UUID 2e3d-424b-b3d2 registered at the Directory Service 'pbrpc://localhost:32638' to 2 (removed)

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-c \fI<creds_file>
Path to a PKCS#12 credentials file (private key + certificate) to use for SSL authentication. Must be present when MRC URL starts with pbrpcs:// or pbrpcg://.
.TP
\fB-cpass \fI<creds_passphrase>
An optional passphrase to access the credentials file.
.TP
\fB-dirs \fI<uri(,uri...)>
Specifies the directory services to use (e.g. 'pbrpc://localhost:32638,pbrpc://myDir.com:32638') (comma-separated). If no URI is specified, URIs and security settings are taken from '/etc/xos/xtreemfs/default_dir'. In case of a secured URI ('pbrpcs://...' or 'pbrpcg://...'), it is necessary to also specify SSL settings.
.TP
\fB-h/--help
Show usage info.
.TP
\fB-t \fI<trusted_CAs>
Path to a PKCS#12 file containing a set of certificates from trusted certification authorities. These certificates will be used to authenticate the MRC. Must be present when MRC URL starts with pbrpcs:// or pbrpcg://.
.TP
\fB-tpass \fI<trusted_passphrase>
An optional passphrase to access the truststore file.
.TP
\fB---ssl-protocol \fI<ssl-protocol> 
SSL/TLS version to use: ssltls, tlsv1, tlsv11, tlsv12. 'ssltls' (default) accepts all versions, the others accept only the exact version they name. 'tlsv12' is available in JDK 7+ only. 'tlsv11' comes with JDK 6 or 7, depending on the vendor.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xtfs_cleanup (1),
.BR xtfs_mrcdbtool (1),
.BR xtfs_remove_osd (1),
.BR xtfs_scrub (1),
.BR

.SH AVAILABILITY
The xtfs_chstatus command is part of the XtreemFS-tools package and is available from \fIhttp://www.xtreemfs.org\fP.
