.TH xtfs_remove_osd 1 "July 2011" "The XtreemFS Distributed File System" "XtreemFS Admin Tools"
.SH NAME
xtfs_remove_osd \- removes an OSD by copying all objects on this OSD to other OSDs
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBxtfs_remove_osd [ \fIoptions\fB ] \fIuuid:<osd_uuid>
.BR

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I xtfs_remove_osd
removes an OSD which is currently used. It copies all objectes on the OSD with the UUID 
.I <osd_uuid>
to other OSDs and then shut down the OSD. 

.SH EXAMPLE USAGE
.TP
.B "xtfs_remove_osd -dir localhost:32638 uuid:d1feb333-d986-4e91-b8e7-eb2a48485f8b"
Starts the removing process on the OSD identified by UUID 'd1feb333-d986-4e91-b8e7-eb2a48485f8b' and copies all files automatically to other OSDs (determinded by the OSD Selection Policy).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-c \fI<creds_file>
Path to a PKCS#12 credentials file (private key + certificate) to use for SSL authentication. Must be present when MRC URL starts with pbrpcs:// or pbrpcg://.
.TP
\fB-cpass \fI<creds_passphrase>
An optional passphrase to access the credentials file.
.TP
\fB-dir \fI<uri>
Specifies the directory service to use (e.g. 'pbrpc://localhost:32638'). If no URI is specified, URI and security settings are taken from '/etc/xos/xtreemfs/default_dir'. In case of a secured URI ('pbrpcs://...' or 'pbrpcg://...'), it is necessary to also specify SSL settings.
.TP
\fB-h/--help
Shows usage info.
.TP
\fB-t \fI<trusted_CAs>
Path to a PKCS#12 file containing a set of certificates from trusted certification authorities. These certificates will be used to authenticate the MRC. Must be present when MRC URL starts with pbrpcs:// or pbrpcg://.
.TP
\fB-tpass \fI<trusted_passphrase>
An optional passphrase to access the truststore file.
.TP
\fB-d 
Enables debugging output. 
.TP
\fB-s
Shuts down the OSD per remote call after all object files are moved to other OSDs. Note that the shutdown process will be performed independently from your init system which can lead to errors if you try to start this OSD again with your init scripts. Therefore the default is not to shutdown the OSD. This step should be performed manually. 
.TP
.B \--admin_password \fI<passphrase>
The administrator password, if password protection is enabled. Used only if you want to shutdown the OSD automatically per remote call.
.TP
\fB---ssl-protocol \fI<ssl-protocol> 
SSL/TLS version to use: ssltls, tlsv1, tlsv11, tlsv12. 'ssltls' (default) accepts all versions, the others accept only the exact version they name. 'tlsv12' is available in JDK 7+ only. 'tlsv11' comes with JDK 6 or 7, depending on the vendor.


.SH LIMITATIONS
.TP
While the draining is in progress, it is not possible to modify the to be moved files as they are temporarily set to read-only. Additionally, when the draining will be started, no files of the OSD should be hold open by any client.
.TP
Draining an OSD that holds striped and replicated files involves certain limitations. A striped file is currently moved to a new OSD in its entirety rather than partially. Regardless of the original number of OSDs it was striped across, it is relocated to a single target OSD, which implies that the target file is not striped anymore. As a consequence, data may be moved from OSDs that are not directly affected by the draining process.
.TP
Furthermore, at least one OSD has to exist for each file that does not hold any data of the file, i.e. is not included in any stripe or replica. If all OSDs that are eligible according to the OSD selection policy have already been assigned to a file, draining any of these OSDs will fail, as no additional replicas can be created.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xtfs_chstatus (1),
.BR xtfs_mrcdbtool (1),
.BR xtfs_remove_osd (1),
.BR xtfs_scrub (1),
.BR xtfs_cleanup (1)
.BR

.SH AVAILABILITY
The xtfs_remove_osd command is part of the XtreemFS-tools package and is available at \fIhttp://www.xtreemfs.org\fP.
